in 1987 tina Lord found herself in quite
the pickle see this gold digger made
sure she married sweet cord Roberts just
before he inherited millions but when
cord found out Tina loved his money as
much as she loved him he dumped her
cords mother Maria was thrilled until
they hooked up again
so Maria hired max holed into romance
Tina and then made sure cord didn't find
out Tina was pregnant with his baby so
Tina still married but thinking cord
didn't love her flew to Argentina with
max cord finally figured out what was
going on and rushed after them but he
was too late
Tina had already been kidnapped strapped
to a raft and sent over a waterfall she
and her baby were presumed dead cord was
sad for a bit but then he bounced right
back with a super smart archaeologist
named Kate and they had a gorgeous
wedding until Tina seemingly back from
the dead ran into the church holding a
baby stop she screamed am I too late
cord I've come so far this is your son
and that ladies and gentlemen is how the
soap opera One Life to Live introduced a
love story that lasted 25 years now if
you've ever seen a soap opera you know
the stories and the characters can be
exaggerated larger than life and if
you're a fan you find that exaggeration
fun and if you're not maybe you find the
melodramatic or unsophisticated maybe
you think watching soap operas is a
waste of time that their bigness means
their lessons are small or non-existent
but I believe the opposite to be true
soap operas reflect life just bigger
so there are real-life lessons we can
learn from soap operas and those lessons
are as big and adventurous as any soap
opera storyline now I've been a fan
since I ran home from the bus stop in
second grade desperate to catch the end
of Luke and Laura's wedding
the biggest moment in general hospitals
history so you can imagine how much I
loved my eight years as the assistant
casting director on as the world turns
my job was watching soap operas reading
soap opera scripts and auditioning
actors to be on soap operas so I know my
stuff and yes soap operas are
larger-than-life drama on a grand scale
but our lives can be filled with as much
intensity and the stakes can feel just
as dramatic we cycle through tragedy and
joy just like these characters we cross
thresholds fight demons and find
salvation unexpectedly and we do it
again and again and again but just like
soaps we can flip the script which means
we can learn from these characters that
move like bumblebees looping and
swerving through life and we can use
those lessons to craft our own life
stories soap operas teach us to push
away doubt and believe in our capacity
for bravery vulnerability adaptability
and resilience and most importantly they
show us it's never too late to change
your story so with that let's start with
soap opera lesson one surrender is not
an option all my children's Erica Kane
was daytime's version of Scarlett O'Hara
a hyperbolically self-important princess
who deep down was scrappy and daring now
in her 41 years on TV perhaps Erica's
most famous scene is her alone in the
woods suddenly face to face with a
grizzly bear she screamed at the bear
you may not do this do you understand me
you may not come near me I am Erica Kane
and you are a filthy beast and of course
the bear left so what that teaches us is
obstacles are to be expected and we can
choose to surrender or we can stand and
fight
Pandora's Tim Westergren knows this
better than most you might even call him
the Erica Kane of Silicon Valley
Tim - co-founders launched the company
with two million dollars in funding they
were out of cash the next year
now lots of companies fold at that point
but Tim chose to fight he maxed out 11
credit cards and racked up six figures
in personal debt and it still wasn't
enough so every two weeks for two years
on payday he stood in front of his
employees and he asked them to sacrifice
their salaries and it worked more than
50 people deferred two million dollars
and now more than a decade later pandora
is worth billions when you believe that
there is a way around or through
whatever is in front of you that
surrender is not an option you can
overcome enormous obstacles which brings
us to soap opera lesson to sacrifice
your ego and drop the superiority
complex now this is scary
it's an acknowledgment of need or FAL
ability maybe it's even an admission
that we're not as special as we might
like to think Stephanie Forrester of the
bull and the beautiful thought she was
pretty darn special she thought she was
so special she didn't need to mix with
the riffraff from the valley and she
made sure valley girl Brooke knew it but
after nearly 25 years of epic fighting
Stephanie got sick and let broke in they
made amends arch enemies became soul
mates and Stephanie died in Brookes arms
and here's our take away drop your ego
life is not about you it's about us and
our ability to experience joy and love
and to improve our reality comes only
when we make ourselves vulnerable and we
accept responsibility for our actions
and our in actions kind of like Howard
Schultz the CEO of Starbucks now after a
great run a CEO Howard stepped down in
2000 and Starbucks quickly overextended
itself and stock prices fell Howard
rejoined the team in 2008 and one of the
first things he did was apologize to all
180,000 employees he apologized and then
he asked for help on his
see and ideas in return and now
Starbucks has more than doubled its net
revenue since Howard came back so
sacrifice your desire to be right or
safe all the time it's not helping
anyone least of all you sacrifice your
ego soap opera lesson 3 evolution is
real you're not meant to be static
characters on television static equals
boring and boring equals fired
characters are supposed to grow and
change now on TV those dynamic changes
can make for some rough transitions
particularly when a character is played
by one person yesterday and played by
someone new today recasting happens all
the time
on soaps over the last 20 years for
different actors have played the same
key role of Carly Benson on General
Hospital each new face triggered a
change in the character's life and
personality now there was always an
essential nugget of Carly in there but
the character and the story adapted to
whomever was playing her and here's what
that means for us well we may not swap
faces in our own lives we can evolve too
we can choose to draw a circle around
our feet and stay in that spot or we can
open ourselves to opportunities like
Carly who went from nursing student to
hotel owner or like Julia Child Julia
was a world war two spy and when the war
ended she got married moved to France
and decided to give culinary school a
shot Julia her books and her TV shows
revolutionized the way America cooks we
all have the power to initiate change in
our lives to evolve and adapt we make
the choice but sometimes life chooses
for us and we don't get a heads-up
surprise slams us in the face you're
flat on the ground the air is gone and
you need resuscitation so thank goodness
for soap opera lesson for resurrection
is possible
in 1983 Days of Our Lives Stefano damira
died of a stroke but not really because
in 1984 he died when his car plunged
into the harbor and yet he was back in
1985 with a brain tumor but before the
tumor could kill him Marlena shot him
and he tumbled off a catwalk to his
death and so it went for 30 years even
when we saw the body we knew better he's
called the Phoenix for her reason and
here's what that means for us as long as
the show is still on the air or you're
still breathing nothing is permanent
resurrection is possible now of course
just like life soap operas do ultimately
meet the big finale CBS canceled my show
as the world turns
in December 2009 and we shot our final
episode in June 2010 it was six months
of dying and I rode that train right
into the mountain and even though we
were in the middle of a huge recession
and millions of people were struggling
to find work I somehow thought
everything would be okay so I packed up
the kids in the Brooklyn apartment and
we moved in with my in-laws in Alabama
three months later nothing was okay that
is when I watched the final episode air
and I realized the show was not the only
fatality I was one too I was unemployed
and living on the second floor of my
in-laws home and that's enough to make
anyone feel dead inside but I knew my
story wasn't over that it couldn't be
over I just had to tap into everything I
had ever learned about soap operas I had
to be brave like Erica and refused to
surrender so every day I made a decision
to fight I had to be vulnerable like
Stephanie and sacrificed my ego I had to
ask for help a lot of times across many
states I had to be adaptable like Carly
and evolve my skills my mindset and my
circumstances and then I had to be
resilient like Stefano and resurrect
myself and my career like a phoenix from
the ashes eventually I got an interview
after 15 years and news and
entertainment nine months of
unemployment and this one interview I
had an offer for an entry-level job I
was 37 years old and that was back from
the dead we will all experience what
looks like an ending and we can choose
to make it a beginning kind of like Tina
who miraculously survived that waterfall
and because I hate to leave a
cliffhanger hanging Tina and cord did
get divorced but they got remarried
three times before the show went off the
air in 2012 so remember as long as there
is breath in your body it's never too
late to change your story thank you
[Applause]